last year these guys printed 450 billion
pounds
that's nearly 10 000 pounds for every
adult in the country
that money could be about to make you
and your family poorer
i'm going to explain to you what's
happening and how to protect ourselves
the first thing you need to understand
is these guys make
money i'm not talking about jay-z floyd
mayweather richard branson make money
this is the only place in the whole
world where they're literally legally
allowed
to create british banknotes now nowadays
most money is electronic so when we talk
about printing money
it's mostly not literal physical
printing of banknotes
but these guys are also the only guys in
the world who are allowed to credit
their own bank account okay you might be
wondering
who's this guy why should you listen to
me well i've been betting on the
consequences of money printing for the
last 10 years and i've made millions of
pounds doing it
so i know i'm talking about now what
happened last year is not normal
it's not normal for these guys to print
this huge amount of money
now these guys were made independent
back in 1998 the idea was
that governments shouldn't have the
ability to control what the economists
in this building are doing with the
money supply
but last year the amount of money
printed here matched almost exactly
pound per pound in every single month
the amount of money which the government
used to support the covert crisis
i cannot explain to you how not normal
this is
what this means is everything the
government did last year the furlough
scheme
eat out to help out support for
self-employed people businesses
every single pound of that money came
from the bank of england
newly printed money that is not normally
how financing works this changes
everything and it's going to dominate
what happens in the next
10 years now normally the governments
get the money they're suspending
from borrowing or taxing but this time
it's purely being printed by the bank of
england and lent to the government
now the government owns the bank of
england so when the bank of england
prints money
and lends it to the government this is
the government lending money to itself
the debate about when or how we pay the
debt back is totally irrelevant
because the government is borrowing the
money from itself
this changes the way that countries deal
with economic crises in the past it's a
question of austerity
should we raise taxation but now crisis
is being dealt with
purely through monetary printing this
sounds like a free lunch
but it's going to cause problems you
need to understand that
if you want to protect your position
okay so if the government there isn't a
problem
and we don't need to do austerity or
raise taxes then it sounds like the
perfect situation right
so what do you need to worry about the
problem is
there's been a massive massive increase
in the amount of cash in the economy
if you're not getting that money you
need to ask yourself who's getting it
all of the data including data collected
by these guys at the bank of england
is showing that the vast majority of
that money has ended up in the bank
accounts of richer people
now that money is not just going to sit
there in the early stages of the crisis
they might be happy to build bigger and
bigger piles of cash but eventually
they're going to start using it they're
going to use to buy things like assets
houses stocks and shares holidays going
to restaurants
they're going to use that money to buy
things that you and your family need
and it's going to push up the prices of
those things what this huge amount of
money printing amounts to
is a massive devaluation in the value of
money
now who is that going to affect who is
that going to hurt well firstly
it's going to hurt ordinary working
people who receives a fixed
monetary salary every month and secondly
it's going to hurt people who've kept
their life savings in cash and are about
to lose a massive chunk of what that is
worth
the fact is it's mainly poor and
ordinary people who are going to get
hurt here
because i know these people are used to
thinking cash is the safest thing
keep your money in cash keep your money
in cash and these are the people that
don't have massive stock and share
portfolios or property portfolios look
if that's you you need to know what you
need to do here at i know that you're
used to holding cash by it's not safe
now
if it's possible you should move that
into other assets like stocks and shares
and gold
and if you've got a property and you're
thinking about selling it
you need to think in future generations
it's going to be super difficult for
ordinary people to buy property
and if you're a younger person who is
fortunate enough to have a way to get a
property
you should get that because that is the
kind of security which 10 20 years down
the line is going to be impossible for
ordinary people
to get i know there's going to be people
watching this video saying
there is no way that me and my family
can buy a house
listen i come from that kind of
background here i know how difficult it
is
for people from ordinary families to do
that we need to address the fact that
most families here are not going to be
in a situation to protect themselves
from what's happening
if house prices double stock prices
double and treble
how are ordinary people going to protect
their ability to access housing
we need to face the facts if this
happens and i'm confident it's going to
happen
a huge number of families in this
country are going to have no way to
access secure housing in the future
what can we do about that the only way
we're going to fix that
is to deal with the actual underlying
fundamental problem of the culvert
crisis
which is that is massively increased
inequality in this country
on top of a decade of already hugely
increasing inequality
if we don't do anything about that there
is no way
we're going to fix the housing problem
[Music]
there is an alternative here it's not
simply a question of
austerity or doubling house prices
there's a group of people
who are making a ton of money off of
this when house prices double and stock
prices treble
that is going to make a huge amount of
money for the super rich who have
millions and millions in stock and
property portfolios
at the moment these guys are profiting
from a crisis
that is going to keep our economy in a
stump for 50 years
the only way we can prevent an economic
disaster here
is to make sure we start taxing the rich
i'm out here working on this every day
if you want to help if you want to know
more
get in touch